lived the majority of my life and in fact we've
lived in the home I guess now about 20 years that
across the street from us or it was across the road
then from us was just flat land and then there was a
creek and then there was pasture land all around
and we go back and look now and schools have gone up
there are houses everywhere and it's strictly a
residential area rather than a being on the
country as it was earlier. So Bryan has kind of come
of age in your, since you've been alive more or
less. Yeah, because I think it was from what I hear
my mother tell and my grandmother tell, it was
really fairly stagnant for quite a number of years
and then just in my lifetime has it really grown and
become a city as such rather than just some bunking
town. Okay, we've talked about your father's side
of of the family at the first of this interview.
What can you tell me about your mother's side, the
Fosters?
Well, my mother is a combination of Hopkins and
Foster, my grandmother being a Hopkins. She's of
Scotch-Irish descent. We still do have some
distant relatives in Scotland and Ireland.
My grandfather came here, my great-grandfather,
I know, homesteaded on one side of the road in Steep
Hollow. And his son, which is my grandfather,
homesteaded across the road from him, where he
still lives today. And we owned, or rather my
relatives owned the majority of the community
there and have sold off portions of land. through
the years. My grandmother was from a small town
called Cross that is just a short drive from here.
There's nothing standing there except a few homes
and a decrepit general store that is falling
apart. Blink twice and you miss it. Right. I think
I've been through there. You were talking about
your brothers or your... Your father's brothers,
whatever, selling off the patterns of land. This
is on my mother's side, right. On your mother's
side, right. Okay. Can you make a broad statement
about the patterns of settlement in early Bryan
College Station history? I think a lot of it had to
do with you could raise cattle here. There was some
cattle industry here. There was even more so the
industry of cattle. call it industry as such, but
the raising of cotton, the cotton mills that were
here, this brought in a lot of black people used in
the cotton, the picking of the cotton and
everything. Not solely black, my mother picked
cotton as a child also. Also, the railroad had
quite a hand in bringing people to this area. In
fact, the Some of the train tracks in Bryan have
just recently been lifted. Right behind my dad's
downtown store was where the old passenger train
came through town. There was a depot there. And
part of the land has since been bought up by my dad
there in expansion of his facilities and then of
the city there by the city hall in Bryan. What about
the river, its effects, the Brazos River? Yes, the
river provided excellent farmland, especially
for the cotton growers. In fact, still today you
can go down in what we call the bottom, and find just
acres and acres of cotton growing. You mentioned
something about the blacks picking cotton. We
talked about this also earlier with the school
integration. Has there been very much
discrimination toward blacks? How would you
describe their situation in the scheme of Bryan
College Station history? Okay, just looking at my
family, I can look at three generations right away
and tell you I think the cotton industry did have a
great deal to do with the black settling in this
area. Once again, we are in the South, so therefore
it has been in the past a more or less prejudiced
area against the black-white relationship. Like
my grandparents today, through no fault of their
own, but merely through the socialization
process that they went through as children and as
young adults and on through their lives, still
refer to the blacks as neighbors. really don't
care to have blacks associate with them except in
the capacity of hired hands. Then you step up to my
parents who are not quite so strong in their
feeling. They're not necessarily niggers, but
they're colored people. It's a change in
terminology there. They do accept somewhat the
black people as human beings, I guess you could put
it, even though they have been all the way through
the ages. Rather than property. Right.
But still, we have been brought up, my brothers and
I have been brought up very definitely that there
is to be a race separation insofar as socializing
with, you know, like dating a black or something
like that. And then you come to my generation where
I have... been with and worked with black
students. Not so much in public school because I
never went to an integrated school. And then here
at A&M I guess the black population has never been
one that has been very high. But still it's a more
liberal attitude that I possess and our brothers
possess. They being younger than me have gone to
school with blacks. I think in comparing my
grandparents to myself, a lot of the prejudice has
been lost, but yet some still remains, especially
in the community. You have to take every person as
an individual.
Let's see. You were born in this area. What
hospital were you born in? St. Joseph, but not the
one that you see today. I was going to say, I was
wondering. The St. Joseph that I was born in was
over on 28th Street. It's now the Brazos Valley
Mental Rehabilitation Unit. Somehow
appropriate. Yes, I guess the building got the
word that I was born there, so they had to change it
over to be appropriate.
There were hospital facilities there. It was the
Catholic Hospital on 28th Street with St. Joseph.
And then there was the Bryan Hospital, which was
more or less in downtown Bryan. It still stands
today, but I don't know what facilities are in it
now. Just recently, in the last few years, has
Bryan realized, I guess with the growth of the
city, they've realized the need for more or less a
medical complex. And there's been an area that has
been developed off Villa Maria and 29th Street.
The present. Yes, there's the present. St. Joe and
Bryan Hospital and just a whole medical complex
out there. What about, oh, you mentioned that some
of your descendants were, your predecessors
rather, were involved in law enforcement.
Can you mention anything in particular about law
enforcement? In the Bryan College Station area, I
mean, we had the famous, renowned campus police
and the, the always efficient college station
police, have they always been, have they always
had the reputation they have now? I'll put it that
way. You know, it's amazing. It's so funny for me to
reflect back, because, yeah, we had the same
feelings about them, as far as I can remember. And
it's amazing to me now, people always say, you
know, how weird the people were. And it seems like
to me, the... kids that I went to school with that
were the biggest tail raisers are now on both the
Bryan College Station and campus police force
carrying real guns and real bullets. But in
talking to them recently they seem to have matured
some and maybe they are doing their job pretty
good. It's funny that you mention that. Just the
other night, just for my own personal interest, I
rode with the campus cops. I don't know if students
know this, but you can ride with them at any time
just to see what the KKs do. And I was very fortunate
to ride with one of the sergeants who's been here
for about 30 years, and I was asking him how has law
enforcement changed on the campus here. And
believe it or not, since we've gone
co-educational, we've become a much milder
campus and have had less carryings on, as you would
say, or less, you know, really bad stuff go on. I was
asking about the trends that have changed. And
just in his time, he can remember, like now, CBs are
the things that are really getting ripped off. And
when he first came here, it was hubcaps. Hubcaps.
Another... thing I think that's worth noting is
Chief Luther, who is chief of the KK's now, was with
the Texas Rangers for about 20 years and then he was
with the Texas Highway Department after that and
he has really made a lifelong career out of law
enforcement in the state of Texas and I think he's a
very admirable man.
Okay, let's get back to the community. What about
folklore in the local area you know any kind of old
ghost stories or anything like that circulating
about this area you brought that up when I did my
student teaching in Bryan High School I had my
students bring in stories that they believed or
legends as such that they've heard in this area and
it was quite amazing the various stories that the
kids brought in One story that I had a 10th grade
student that would vow this was so true. You can go
to Boonville Cemetery, which is a very old
cemetery out on Boonville Road off of Villa Maria,
at the end of Villa Maria. It's in North Glion,
northeast Glion. And you can go and part between
two certain trees and honk your horn three times.
and you're supposed to be able to see green,
glassy, fiery eyes staring into your windshield
if you look close enough. And she swears about
this. Yeah, somehow she was out there on a Friday or
Saturday night, and she and the young man she was
with happened to honk the horn three times and saw
the eyes out there. Then, let's see, there was
closer in College Station here off... right
outside the campus, back in the Northgate area,
there was the old haunted dorm, which has been
gradually... I live in one of those. Which has
gradually been detained through the years.
Excuse me. Then there is also the story there's
supposed to be a home here in College Station where
after World War II, when there was a huge... put of
students into A&M, veterans coming back to
school, a lot of people in the community were
called upon to open up their homes to help house
students. And one particular family opened up
their attic. Although it wasn't a very large
space, they opened up their attic to allow
students to lived there, and a couple of young men
were supposedly to have lived there. And if you're
familiar with the tradition of pulling an
all-nighter before exams, one of these students
was supposed to have walked the floor, pacing back
and forth, studying for his various tests and
exams. And the student was killed before he
graduated from A&M. And it is still said today that
at various times, especially during the season
where final exams would be being held. You can hear
this Aggie walking the floor in this particular
home and in fact several families have complained
of this and moved out of the house and I've talked
with them and they do swear. I've never heard it.
I've never had an occasion to be in the house
overnight during that particular time of the
year. Huh. That's really strange. Do you know
where this house is exactly? I've been there, but I
can't tell you exactly where it is now. I was taken
there, and so I don't remember how to get there. You
mentioned that people threw open their homes to
A&M students. Do you find that this community
seems to pull together in crisis situations such
as that? People seem to be pretty friendly.
I think it's a basically friendly community and
one that will help other people out. However, it
has grown very much less so in the recent years back
when it was a smaller town and everybody knew
everybody. I can remember that. In fact, today a
great majority of the people I still know, but we
have had So many new people move in whether they've
been connected with industry or with the
university. So that now, like even I heard just
yesterday on the radio, one of the disc jockeys was
driving down the street and happened to see a woman
who had fallen. And she hadn't moved in quite a
while. And there seemed to be no effort of her to
stand up. And she had fallen along Texas Avenue and
twisted her ankle. And no one had stopped to help
her. I think it was 670, maybe another street. So I
think right there, that's a sign that maybe people
don't stop and take the time to be as friendly as
they should be. However, in traveling all over the
states, I do prefer the South as a whole to having
friendly or more congenial people. I wish the
campus would go back to its traditional howdy.
Yes. Because that helped... spread
congeniality. I think that's only recently died,
too. I'd say this year. I mean, it has been dying,
I'll admit, but I know at least half of the student
body, you know, including the core, used to do the
old Howdy tradition. I know all the people on the
streets in Bryan are pretty much that way, too, but
this year it just seems like... You know, just wow,
nothing. Well, especially being our centennial
year, I hate to think that one of our more famous
traditions has died. And I hope that people will, I
know I hear complaints that somebody's, you know,
really in a crummy mood and they walk to class and
they hear this stereo howdy, howdy, howdy, howdy,
howdy every time they turn around. But yet, I
really don't think people mean it as just a tape
recording of saying howdy every time they turn
around. meet somebody, just a pleasant smile,
even if they don't speak. But I would like to see
that one tradition revived. And I don't think it's
dead completely. I think it's dying, but I'd like
to see it revived. Let's talk about the community
again. What is the social life like in Bryan? What
do people in Bryan do for a good time? What have they
done historically, back from the good old days
with the Sunday
go-to-meet-and-dinner-on-the-grounds type
thing? How has that evolved? We had a lot of that. It
was a very strong,
I think it had a very strong religious founding.
And there has been a lot of social life that has
generated around the church and the youth
activities from that. However, in recent years,
people have grown out of that to a certain extent.
which I hesitate to say whether that's been good or
bad.
I know when I was growing up, I felt like the only
place to go was either to the show or to the show or to
the show.
How about places like Pooh's Park? Did that appeal
to you? Was that around then? Did they have
anything like that? Now we had the miniature golf
course in the parks. That was about it as far as
extracurricular activities for a child growing
up. I think now the community is seeing a need for
having facilities for children as such. In fact,
you might directly tie that into the drug scare
that we had. recent years where all of the
quote-unquote establishment felt like the
younger generation was going to the dogs and maybe
they realized that there wasn't enough to do in
some areas for their children. And that's why a lot
of people have gone to seeking out and providing
recreation for the various age groups. Yes, I want
to get on a little bit of the religion. You said that
it was basically a pretty religious area early.
What kind of religions were available to people
here in College Station?
Once again, I'm more familiar with the Bryan area
rather than College Station. Oh, well, fine.
There is, of course, always been your Southern
Baptists who have been a very strong group in the
South as a whole. Your Methodist is another very
strong church. And then I suppose to the Spanish
and Italian descent, we've also had a very strong
Catholic influence on our area. Then, of course,
you have your other religions. I hate to be leaving
out religion, but I think those are really the main
three that have been the largest and the most
functional in this area. Can you think of anything
else, unusual stories? Anything you might add?
No. I really can't. The community has really
changed. As I remember, and I know in our mothers'
and grandparents' memories, it has really
changed. For the better? I don't know. There's a
certain neatness about a small town. but yet there
seems to be more social life, especially for a
young person in a larger town. I think this is still
a nice-sized town to raise a family
in, but it needs to have a lot more to offer,
especially with this being such a
college-oriented community. I know the one thing
that has really... I know we're not supposed to
really get on the college, but One thing that has
really changed is, like, A&M itself and the fact
that, like, everyone used to be all core. And I can
remember walking down the street, you know,
Saturday afternoon or whatever, and you could see
a guy just, you know, dressed in civilian clothes
with his head just as bald as a billiard ball and
just a spit shine on it. And you knew immediately he
was a freshman in the corps. He didn't have to be in
uniform to tell that. And it's now they all have
hair and now they're not all necessarily in
uniform on campus. And then with the women going
into the Corps it still startles me to see women.
And now that we've got two juniors I'm
anticipating to see what they'll look like in
boots next year. and see exactly what kind of, you
know, will they wear the gaucho pants with boots,
or are they going to wear the boot pants with boots,
or exactly what they will look like. I'm glad we've
stopped shaving heads. I don't think the girls
would really go in for that. If the school were to,
say, were to mystically go bankrupt tomorrow, If
they had to shut A&M down, Federal Education Act or
something, shut A&M down. State. State. Okay, do
you think that the Bryan College Station would
survive? At the same age I am now, if you'd asked me
that 10 or 15 years ago, I would say that the whole
town would probably just be wiped out. or it would
just be a town like Hearn or Navasota, you know,
just a small community. The university gives so
much
to the area. However, I think we've got enough now,
speaking industry-wise and business-wise, that
they would survive as a town and probably a
nice-sized town. However, of course, your, like,
weaker eating establishments and things like
this may find themselves looking for more
customers and close down. In fact, very much so.
But I think it would survive to a certain extent. It
wouldn't be near the area that it is now, but there
would be something. Well, and because people have
their roots here, too. For one reason, we stayed
around here. I don't know what that reason is right
now. For some unknown reason, my dad decided to
come here. He's made it very good here. He's
decided to stay and has had no desire to leave. I
have a feeling there are many other people, even if
the university was to dissipate somehow during
the night, that they would too choose to stay here.
Well, that's all I have. Do you want to add
anything? No, I can't think of anything. I really
enjoyed it. Thank you for your time.